WILLOW -- Constance Walz stopped to watch a firefighting helicopter as she moved wood away from the converted bus she shares with her seven-toed cat. Walz is part of a much larger brigade of Willow residents staying put instead of evacuating from the Sockeye fire, an uncontrolled wildland conflagration that’s so far destroyed 50 to 100 structures and burned across more than 7,500 acres since Sunday. “This is our home,” she said Tuesday, standing in her driveway wearing a sleeveless blouse and open-toed sandals. “Until it’s in my backyard and that rubber is melting on my truck I’m not going anywhere. We’ve got to protect the neighborhood. Who else is going to?” The flames came close to this neighborhood on the fire's northern edge Monday night. A wind shift pushed flames from the next road south -- West Sockeye Avenue, near where the fire started -- and toward the rural West Sheep Creek Drive neighborhood where Walz lives, amid a thick canopy of the same black spruce that this fire blows through like standing tinder. Alaska State Troopers told the scattered residents along the gravel road to evacuate. Walz lost her home in the 1996 Miller's Reach fire that destroyed more than 400. “I told him I wasn’t leaving,” she said. “They said it was voluntary anyway.” This fire, however, is expected to turn ugly again. Forecasts called for extreme behavior Tuesday night due to thunderstorms and erratic winds. The crews fighting the fire acknowledge the state's general policy against mandatory evacuations. But they don't like it, officials say, because homeowners may misjudge the danger. “The troopers are very cautious in advising us that evacuations are voluntary,” Tom Kurth, incident commander on the fire, said during a press conference Tuesday. “Now, that’s not our advice.” Approaching fires throw off voluminous smoke, and then turbulence starts, Kurth said. That’s when some holdouts decide to leave home, “Out they come," he said. "They’re in the smoke. We’re in the smoke. It’s a very dangerous environment to operate in.” Alaska Wildlife Trooper Thomas Akelkok spent Tuesday guarding against looters and checking on people who stayed behind despite an evacuation advisory that now covers a 15-mile corridor along the Parks Highway. Akelkok, a Ekwok native who brings a good-natured personality to the job, drove down a long driveway near Capitol Speedway to check on a home. Skeletal charred spruce trees stood like spikes in a moonscape of gray. Occasional whiffs of smoke emerged from the incinerated duff. The trooper came to the house Sunday as the fire bore down to warn the family inside. “Behind me, I could see it in the rearview mirror,” Akelkok said as his pickup bounced down the driveway. “It looked like the road was catching on fire.” He drove through flames to get back out, then learned that a woman remained at the house. Akelkok turned around, got the woman out and escaped down a four-wheeler trail. “That was cutting it really close,” he said. The house still stood unscathed as of Tuesday. Chickens clucked and pecked at some weeds. One had char marks on its tail. The day the fire started, officials say, it torched through beetle-killed black spruce like a freight train running 20 to 30 mph. Flames took off again during Monday’s wind shift. Fire burned so hot in places that metal turned molten and houses nearly crumbled into ash. Super-heated rocks stuck to tires on back roads. But other homes survived unscathed. The lawn looked freshly mowed at one neat green home with 17 gas cans, several propane canisters and a generator left a distance away. Municipal fire crews spent long hours protecting many homes, officials say. “It’s weird,” Akelkok said. “You’ll see a house burned down and right next to it is one still standing.” People who did evacuate post desperate messages on social media asking if their houses are still standing, or ask neighbors making trips inside the evacuation zone to check for them. Akelkok snaps photos for evacuees. Sometimes the snapshots show only wreckage. Back at West Sheep Creek Drive, Elizabeth Walraven and her grandfather pulled up on four-wheelers. Neighbor Robert Byrd followed a few minutes later. All three are waiting out the fire -- or hope to. Byrd built a fire break at his property years ago. Walraven said her family cleared an escape route toward the north in case they need to get out fast. Monday night, she said, heavy smoke made it hard to sleep. The truck is loaded, she said. “I’m ready.”